forensics/300-mic/solution/README.md, before:

# Forensics 300 Solution

## Solution

The intended solution for forensics 300 is as follows:

1. Extract the file `scans.tar.gz` to a new directory `scans/`.
2. Write a script to perform steps 3-6 for each file matching `scans/*.png`.
3. Locate the pixel (let's call it the "origin") closest to the upper left corner of the image that's hex color code is in the range `FFFF77` to `FFFF88`. The colors in this range are only used for drawing dot matrices. The range can be determined by manually checking a few of the dots in the matrices to test for the limits. This pixel is the upper left of the machine identification code.
4. The leftmost column is a parity column, and the uppermost row is a parity row (see below image; the parity columns are circled in red, and origin pixel is circled twice). So, repeat steps 5-6 14 times (as dot matrices are 15 pixels wide after spacing is taken out, minus the 1 parity column to the very left).

![parity](screenshot_parity.png)

5. Find the column to the immediate right of the parity column, and begin summing up the values in the column, where each bit is represents a binary 1 or 0, counting from the bottom up (as seen in the below image. Green represents the parity pixels and should not be counted when summing the values). Each column is a number that can be found by reading its bits.

![columns](screenshot_columns.png)

6. Now convert each number in each column (all of which are less than 255) to an their ASCII representation (e.g. `41` -> `A`). Concatenate all of the characters together. If the resulting string contains "BSidesPDXCTF", write the string to stdout. Otherwise, the image is not the one containing the flag.

------

That's fairly complicated. This machine identification code is based off of one found by the EFF. Here is the EFF's explanation: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_Identification_Code#/media/File:Machine_Identification_Code_von_Druckern.png

The flag is stored in one the machine identification codes on the scans of paper. The goal is to find which one.

## Fun Fact

Originally, the problem used realistic 600 dpi scans of paper with to-scale machine identification codes. Unfortunately, each scan, after being compressed, was about 13 megabytes. This is not practical for 100 scans of paper, so I had to turn the resolution down quite a bit.

Commit message:

Create solution script and update solution markdown file

forensics/300-mic/solution/README.md, after:

# Forensics 300 Solution

## Solution

The script to solve forensics 300 does the following:

1. Extract the file `scans.tar.gz` to a new directory `scans/`.
2. Write a script to perform steps 3-6 for each file matching `scans/*.png`.
3. Locate the pixel (let's call it the "origin") closest to the upper left corner of the image that's hex color code is in the range `FFFF77` to `FFFF88` (inclusive). The colors in this range are only used for drawing dot matrices. The range can be determined by manually checking a few of the dots in the matrices to test for the limits. This pixel is the upper left of the machine identification code.
4. The leftmost column is a parity column, and the uppermost row is a parity row (see below image; the parity columns are circled in red, and origin pixel is circled twice). So, repeat steps 5-6 14 times (as dot matrices are 15 pixels wide after spacing is taken out, minus the 1 parity column to the very left).

![parity](screenshot_parity.png)

5. Find the column to the immediate right of the parity column, and begin summing up the values in the column, where each bit is represents a binary 1 or 0, counting from the bottom up (as seen in the below image. Green represents the parity pixels and should not be counted when summing the values). Each column is a number that can be found by reading its bits.

![columns](screenshot_columns.png)

6. Now convert each number in each column (all of which are less than 255) to an their ASCII representation (e.g. `41` -> `A`). Concatenate all of the characters together. If the resulting string contains "BSidesPDX", write the string to stdout. Otherwise, the image is not the one containing the flag.

------

That's fairly complicated. This machine identification code is based off of one found by the EFF. Here is the EFF's explanation: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_Identification_Code#/media/File:Machine_Identification_Code_von_Druckern.png

The flag is stored in one the machine identification codes on the scans of paper. The goal is to find which one.

## Fun Fact

Originally, the problem used realistic 600 dpi scans of paper with to-scale machine identification codes. Unfortunately, each scan, after being compressed, was about 13 megabytes. This is not practical for 100 scans of paper, so I had to turn the resolution down quite a bit.
